Here are the steps for the Historic Pop implementation:
1. for each country and year, convert pop rasters to points
2. intersect pop points with urban extents and label intersecting points as urban,
and not-intersecting as rural
3. For each point, calculte distance to urban extents twice: once as distance to urban extents polygons (dist1) and once as distance to centroids of urban extents (dist2).
3. compare the total urban pop for each country to UN's estimates; calculate the difference:

		diff=(UN's urbanization rate*total pop)-pop of urban cells

if difference is positive, select rural points within distance=0.0083333333*1 (dist1 in this case) of a grid (this raster pop resolution, so would be 
equivivalent of 1 cell); check total pop of selected points; if it is smaller than diff, add those points as candidates to be flipped
to urban; proceed to select points within distance=0.0083333333*2 and keep adding to the list of candidates...etc, 
untill total pop of the selected points reaches the diff. For the last iterration, once condition pop_tot>=diff, 
sort points in ascending order by distance to urban extents and in descending order by pop, start selecting 
cells with smallest distance but higherst pop until the diff is reached. Flipp all the candidates to urban.

if the difference is negative:
sort urban points by dist2 in descending order and by pop in ascending order, select points with largest distance and smallest pop (farthest from
urban core centroids and with smallest population) until reaching the absolute value of the diff and flip those selected urban points to rural.

Write out as shapefiles separately urban and rural points.

4. Spatially join each set of points (urban, rural) for each year (2000, 2010) to corresponding country grids. Write out as single shapefile for each country-grid.

As a note: In writing out shapefile, I have miscalculated the length of the fields (>10 characters) and as a result last character is trancated: urb_pop2000 is urb_pop200 etc.

The following countries are not done:
Russia. Brazil, China. The datasets are too large for them and the script hangs every time it encounters one of this countries.

In Central Africa region:
Country Grids for CHAD are wrong

Country with iso code TUV threw an exception, I will re-run the outputs for it.